CHAPTER 1.
THE PRISON DOOR
A throng of bearded men, in sad-coloured garments and grey, steepled crowned hats, intermixed
with women, some wearing hoods, and others bare-headed, was assembled in front of a wooden
edifice, the door of which was heavily timbered with oak, and studded with iron spikes.
The founders of a new colony, whatever utopia of human virtue and happiness they might originally
project, have invariably recognised it among their earliest practical necessities to allot
soil as a cemetery, and another portion as the site of a prison.
In accordance with this rule, it may safely be assumed that the forefathers of Boston
had built the first prison house somewhere in the vicinity of Corn Hill, almost as seasonably
as they marked out the first burial ground, on Isaac Johnson's lot, and round about his
grave, which subsequently became the nucleus of all the congregated sepulchres in the
old churchyard of King's Chapel.
Certain it is that some fifteen or twenty years after the settlement of the town, the
wooden jail was already marked with weather stains and other indications of age, which
gave a yet darker aspect to its beetle-browned and gloomy front.
The rust on the ponderous ironwork of its oak and door looked more antique than anything
else in the New World.
Like all that pertains to crime, it seemed never to have known a youthful era.
Before this ugly edifice, and between it and the wheel track of the street, was a grass
plot, much overgrown with burdock, pigweed, apple-pern, and such unsightly vegetation,
which evidently found something congenial in the soil that had so early borne the black
flower of civilized society, a prison.
But on one side of the portal, and rooted almost at the threshold, was a wild rose bush
covered, in this month of June, with its delicate gems, which might be imagined to offer their
fragrance and fragile beauty to the prisoner as he went in, and to the condemned criminal
as he came forth to his doom.
In token that the deep heart of nature could pity and be kind to him.
This rose bush, by a strange chance, has been kept alive in history.
But whether it had merely survived out of the stern old wilderness so long after the
fall of the gigantic pines and oaks that originally overshadowed it, or whether, as there is fair
authority for believing, it had sprung up under the footsteps of the sainted Anne Hutchinson
as she entered the prison door, we shall not take upon us to determine.
Finding it so directly on the threshold of our narrative, which is now about to issue
from that inauspicious portal, we could hardly do otherwise than pluck one of its flowers
and present it to the reader.
It may serve, let us hope, to symbolize some sweet moral blossom that may be found along
the track, or relieve the darkening clothes of a tale of human frailty and sorrow.
End of chapter 1
The Prison Door
Read by James R. W. Macdonald
who could be found at jrwmcdonald.com